Have you ever received a change of assignment?
I'm sure all of us have.
But how did you react each time that you received a change of assignment?
Well, if we brutally honest, we probably would have to admit
our reaction was perhaps not always the same and maybe not as good each time.
For example, in 1978, when I received the letter from the governing body
assigning me as a missionary to the South Pacific,
I was sad to leave behind my friends and relatives,
but I was so excited.
I was looking forward to this new door of opportunity to be a missionary in the South Pacific.
And through the years, I had a number of assignment changes.
But one that stands out in my mind is in 2003.
That's when I received another very short letter from the governing body
telling me that I was going to be permanently assigned to New York.
My reaction?
A little different this time.
I was shocked, dismayed, overwhelmed.
In fact, even horrified.
Why?
Because I thought I knew where your hover wanted me to be.
And I certainly didn't expect this change of assignment.
And additionally, I was never had on my wish list working in America.
So with those thoughts running through my mind,
I found for about three days I could hardly speak to anyone.
I was found sitting on a chair just staring into space,
blank look on my face.
Well, what can we do when we have a reaction like that to a change of assignment?
Well, there are a few things we'd like to discuss with you this morning.
The first one is remember what you have promised your hover to do.
And that's a very important thing to remember.
In the case of our Lord Jesus Christ, when He was to be baptized,
we remember Hebrews chapter 10 tells us,
He prayed, look, I have come to do your will.
So He was eager, He was ready, He wanted to do Jehovah's will.
But now let's think of the situation just before His death.
He was praying earnestly, and He asked for this cup to be removed,
the cup meaning the shameful death as a criminal.
That could perhaps dishonor Jehovah's name.
But then what did Jesus say at the end of that prayer?
Yet not as I will, but as you will.
So Jesus remembered what He promised,
and He remembered Jehovah's will as the prime thing.
Now in my case, after being stunned for a few days,
someone very close to me said something very powerful, they said,
well, we know it's very hard for you, Jeff, because you love the Pacific.
But we know you loved Jehovah more.
That's exactly the reminder that I needed at that time.
The second thing that can help us is to allow for some time.
Don't just react immediately, but perhaps take a few days off.
If it's a large change of assignment,
take that time to quietly pray to Jehovah to meditate on the Scriptures.
Now again, if we think of the example of our Lord Jesus,
after He was baptized, what did He do?
He went for 40 days after His baptism into the wilderness.
And there, no doubt, He meditated on all the many things
that have been downloaded to His mind about His previous experiences
and also thinking about what He would face in the future.
Yes, He took the time to pray and meditate about this change of assignment,
even though perhaps He had already spent thousands of years preparing for this assignment.
Also, the apostle Paul did something similar.
We're remembering Galatians 1 after his conversion.
It says that he went into Arabia for a little while,
and the study note on Galatians 1, 17, tells us
that perhaps he used that quiet time to meditate on the Scriptures
and adjust his viewpoint with regard to the application of those Scriptures.
So what can we do if we just have a little bit of time by ourselves
once we've received the notification of a change of assignment?
Well, one thing could be to reflect the attitude of King David
as expressed in Psalm 51 and verse 10.
Let's read that together.
There, the Psalmist David said,
create in me a pure heart of God
and put within me a new spirit, a steadfast one.
Yes, if we're starting to feel negative with regard to a change of assignment,
why not pray specifically to Jehovah to grant us a willing spirit
or as Philippians 2 verse 13 says,
to give us the desire and the power to act in accepting this new assignment.
And of course, Philippians 4, 6, and 7 says,
that Jehovah can grant us that peace of God
that will protect our heart and our mental powers.
What's the third thing that we need to keep in mind?
Don't view this change of assignment as a demotion.
Let's think again of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Philippians 2 tells us that he was in a very high position,
the second highest position in the whole universe,
together with his father, but he was willing to come down lower than the angels
and then even lower than the authority of his fleshly parents.
He had to obey them.
But now here's the question.
At that point in time was Jesus more valuable to Jehovah or less valuable.
Of course, he was more valuable even though he had a lowly position.
So in a similar way, we need to realize that privileges are not the measure of our personal worth.
So that helps us not to view any reassignment or change of assignment
as being a demotion.
The fourth point to keep in mind is when we're thinking about this new assignment,
look for the advantages and don't just focus on the disadvantages.
Let's think about the example of the Apostle Paul.
We remember that he had a very high status in the society of the Jewish people back in his day
as a Pharisee well-educated.
And then after his conversion, he was hated by people.
He lost the social status.
He had to endure all sorts of difficulties.
But what was Paul's attitude?
Well, turn with me please to Philippians chapter 2,
sorry, Philippians chapter 4, and verse 11.
And notice at the end of verse 11, he says,
for I have learned to be self-sufficient regardless of my circumstances.
Whereas one translation says, I have become independent of my circumstances.
So in other words, my circumstances don't dictate my joy and my relationship with Jehovah.
What a beautiful thought. And notice how he expresses this in verses 12 and 13.
I know how to be low on provisions and how to have an abundance.
In everything and in all circumstances, I have learned the secret of how to be full and how to hunger,
both how to have an abundance and how to do without.
And this is the key point.
For all things I have the strength for the one who gives me power.
So Paul was able to learn to rely fully upon Jehovah.
And he realized no matter what circumstance he had or what a Simon he was given,
there would be advantages and disadvantages.
Now I'm sure none of us have found the perfect assignment, have we?
Every assignment has some good things and some negative things about it.
So keeping that in mind helps us to focus on the positive things,
the advantages of a new assignment.
And finally, let's remember the examples of others.
Perhaps modern day examples, persons we know who have adapted to change of assignment.
What we might even think of one such as Abraham and Sarah.
Remember how they had to leave their home and live in tents for a long period of time.
But Hebrews chapter 6, verse 15 says,
After Abraham had showed patience, he obtained his promise.
Yes, what a beautiful reminder.
And as Hebrews tells us with regard to this type of person, Hebrews 11, 15,
and yet if they had kept remembering the place from which they had departed,
they would have had an opportunity to return.
So if we face a new assignment, how can we react?
Well, remember if we keep in mind what we promised Jehovah,
our relationship with him, that we would do whatever he asks,
if we allow time to get our minds around the assignment and pray about it,
if we don't view it as a demotion, if we look through the advantages,
and we remember the example of others, then certainly we can say to Jehovah,
here am I, send me.